Well, I loved your first book, The
Emperor of All Malades. I was excited to
see you found time to write another one.
The first book, there's a long sort of
history of trying to understand cancer.
But this book, Gene, is more about the
future than than 50% of this book is in
the future.
What happens now that that the human
genome has become mostly readable? The
central question in this book is, you
know, when a machine starts to
understand its own code of instructions,
what happens to that machine? Does it
change its code of instructions? Does it
learn to limit those changes? Is that
limiting of the instructions part of the
instructions themselves? That's the
central sort of animous of this book.
Yeah. To me, that's such a fascinating
question because it would almost seem
cruel not to fix cystic fibrosis or a
variety of even more rare diseases. I
think these are powerful technologies
and dangerous technologies and the
conversation has to be quite wide. But
now the technologies are getting to the
place where that's going to become
technologically possible I would imagine
in the next 10 odd years. Most of the
stuff you hear about is is pretty much
on the side that you consider positive
like the disease type editing
for our patients. I can see a road map
in which the use of gene editing
technologies could have therapeutic
implications. One that's of interest to
our foundation is HIV. Although a very
tough one that's probably pretty far off
is whether you could edit people's
immune cells so that they're cured of
HIV.
Again, the questions are scalability,
you know, how expensive is it going to
be? And the perennial question, what are
the offtarget effects? Are there
unintended consequences that we don't
know yet? We will know at least for some
cohort of of human beings as early as 2
to 3 years. And what percentage of your
cancer patients now would have some type
of sequencing done to to help guide
their treatment?
So for blood cancer, I would say some
type of sequencing. I would say it's
coming up to about 89%.
And that's because in some cases you'll
actually change the treatment, which
drugs or how you go about it based on
that data.
That's right. That field is in its
infancy. Um, and I think there's been a
lot of hype around that field. Being
able to use genetic and genomic
information from a tumor and using that
to understand therapy or to direct
therapy, I think is an idea which has
deep biological justification. It hasn't
come about yet because the technologies
aren't there yet. So, we shouldn't be
selling the idea as it were. Uh, it's a
research project, but it's a very valid
research project. It's one of the most
valid research projects in cancer. We
need all our skills, all our wits to
understand what happens once we start
changing or beginning to change the
instructions with which were built.